Auth: Whats new v10.2 (#76369)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/whatsnew/whats-new-in-v10-2.md

The `accessTokenExpirationCheck` feature toggle will be removed in Grafana v10.3.
{{% /admonition %}}

> ## Add dashboard and folder permissions to service accounts

Reviewer: I think you mean for these to be under the **Authentication and authorization** heading so I'm making all of these H3s.
```suggestion
### Add dashboard and folder permissions to service accounts
```

<!-- Jo Guerreiro -->

_Generally available in Grafana Open Source and Enterprise_

Service accounts allow you to create a token that can be used to authenticate with Grafana.

> You can use this token to access Grafana's API, as well as, dashboards that the service account has access to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use this token to access Grafana's API, as well as dashboards that the service account has access to.
```

In this release, we've added the ability to assign dashboard and folder permissions to service accounts.
This means that you can now create a service account that can be used to access a specific dashboard and nothing else.

This is useful if you want to limit the access service accounts have to your Grafana instance.

> ## Add data source permissions to service accounts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Add data source permissions to service accounts
```

<!-- Jo Guerreiro -->

_Available in Grafana Enterprise_

Service accounts are a powerful tool for authenticating with Grafana's API and accessing data sources.
However, without proper access controls, service accounts can pose a security risk to your Grafana instance.

To address this issue, Grafana 10.2 introduces the ability to assign data source permissions to service accounts.
With this feature, you can create a service account that has access to a specific data source and nothing else.
This is useful in scenarios where you want to limit the access service accounts have to your Grafana instance.

For example, imagine you have a team of developers who need to access a specific data source to develop a new feature.
Instead of giving them full access to your Grafana instance, you can create a service account that has access only to that data source.
This way, you can limit the potential damage that could be caused by a compromised service account.

> {{< figure src="/media/docs/grafana/screenshot-grafana-10-2-sa-managed-permissions.png" caption="Data source permissions in 10.2" > }}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< figure src="/media/docs/grafana/screenshot-grafana-10-2-sa-managed-permissions.png" caption="Data source permissions in 10.2" >}}
```

> ## Role mapping support for Google OIDC

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Role mapping support for Google OIDC
```

<!-- Jo Guerreiro -->

_Generally available in Grafana Open Source and Enterprise_

You can now map Google groups to Grafana organizational roles when using Google OIDC.
This is useful if you want to limit the access users have to your Grafana instance.

We've also added support for controlling allowed groups when using Google OIDC.

> Refer to the [Google Authentication documentation](http://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA VERSION>/setup-grafana/configure-security/configure-authentication/google/index.md) to learn how to use these new options.

Reviewer: Fixing version syntax and removing index.md
```suggestion
Refer to the [Google Authentication documentation](http://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/setup-grafana/configure-security/configure-authentication/google/) to learn how to use these new options.
```

The `accessTokenExpirationCheck` feature toggle will be removed in Grafana v10.3.
{{% /admonition %}}

> ## Add Dashboard and Datasource permissions to Service accounts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Add dashboard and data source permissions to service accounts
```

> ## Add Dashboard and Datasource permissions to Service accounts

Author: I think we can, can you find a way to word it that's not a mouth full :sweat_smile:

> ## Add Dashboard and Datasource permissions to Service accounts

Author: I've added it into the body

<!-- Jo Guerreiro -->

> _Generally available in Grafana_

Author: So, dashboard permissions are available to OSS, Enterprise, Cloud. 
Datasource permissions are available for Enterprise, Cloud.

The ability to add service accounts to these permissions, everyone.
:sweat_smile: is there a better way to word it?

> _Generally available in Grafana_

Reviewer: Hmm, I think we should separate these entries then if they aren't available to the same set of users. Also, since these are both available to Cloud users, I'm going to add them to the Cloud what's new as well once we've edited them.

Service accounts allow you to create a token that can be used to authenticate with Grafana.

> This token can be used to access Grafana's API, and can be used to access data sources and dashboards that the service account has access to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use this token to access Grafana's API, as well as, data sources and dashboards that the service account has access to.
```

> In this release, we've added the ability to assign dashboard and data source permissions to service accounts.

Author: ```suggestion
In this release, we've added the ability to assign dashboard, folder and data source permissions to service accounts.
```

> In this release, we've added the ability to assign dashboard, folder and data source permissions to service accounts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this release, we've added the ability to assign dashboard, folder, and data source permissions to service accounts.
```

This means that you can now create a service account that can be used to access a specific dashboard or data source and nothing else.

{{< figure src="/media/docs/grafana/screenshot-grafana-10-2-sa-managed-permissions.png" caption="Datasource permissions in 10.2" > }}

This is useful if you want to limit the access service accounts have to your Grafana instance.

## Role mapping support for Google OIDC

<!-- Jo Guerreiro -->

> _Generally available in Grafana_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Generally available in Grafana Open Source and Enterprise_
```

> _Generally available in Grafana_

Author: Available OSS, Enterprise and Cloud :smile:

> _Generally available in Grafana_

Reviewer: Okay so since this is avail in Cloud, I'm going to add this to the Cloud what's new as well.

> _Generally available in Grafana_

Reviewer: Added and tagged you for review:
https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/76459
